a lot changed on Instagram in 2023 from
reals views dropping by 76% on average
to the invention of new features like
Instagram notes there were moving of
features like guides and so much more
this past year was definitely filled
with lots of changes on Instagram and it
seems like every single year there's
more and more and more big changes that
completely alter the way we use the app
and in 2023 we saw Instagram come out
with an entirely new app threads in
order to compete with Twitter and so
with all of those changes in mind in
today's episode I'm going to be sharing
with you my seven Instagram predictions
for 202 4 Once you hear these
predictions you are hopefully going to
be able to make better content that gets
more views more engagement and hopefully
creates more of an income from you from
Instagram in
2024 if you haven't already I highly
recommend checking out the episode that
we released just a few weeks ago
recapping my 2023 predictions and going
over what I got right and what I got
wrong but if you don't have the time to
listen to that I will recap it for you
and give you the summary which is that I
got most of those things right I don't
say that to to my own horn or to brag or
boast I say that to give some
credibility into what predictions I'm
going to be sharing with you today also
in case you have no idea who I am or why
you should listen to my seven
predictions my name is Brock Johnson and
it's my job to help other business
owners and creators grow on Instagram
we've helped over 40,000 students within
the insta clubhub and we have hundreds
of members with over 100,000 followers
personally I have over 600,000 followers
and I am now a consultant for meta which
means that I often times get the inside
scoop on the products or features that
they are working on or in the process of
launching so yes it is fair to say that
there is some Insider information that
is backing up some of these predictions
I'm going to be making today before we
hop into the predictions though there's
one thing that I think we all need to
understand and that often times the
changes that happen on social media
aren't necessarily decisions being made
by the executives and the teams that
write the code for the algorithms
instead usually what's happening is
changes in user habits and consumption
Behavior basically things change on
YouTube and Tik Tok and Instagram way
more because we change as people our
preferences change the way we consume
things change the type of content that
interests us or that captivates us
that's what changes not necessarily the
algorithms on the back end typically it
is user behavior that then influences
the algorithms to slightly change or
adapt in order to better serve us what
we want if it was the other way around
and it was the algorithms that were
always changing it wouldn't work very
well or at least it wouldn't last very
long because the algorithms would be
changing into what they want or what the
coders want or what the computer wants
and we as the consumers wouldn't really
enjoy consuming content we wouldn't
enjoy being on these platforms we
wouldn't be on for very much longer we
would either go to a new platform or get
off them all together and it just isn't
a good business model so that's why
almost all social media Believe It or
Not primarily changes and primarily runs
itself based off of consumer habits and
what we the general population the
general public want before we get into
these seven predictions I do want to let
you know if you're an insta clubhub
member I have already shared these
predictions in depth
inside the club so make sure to log in
there to check out your full predictions
we released that like a week or two ago
but without further Ado prediction
number one for 2024 is the rise of long
form slow paced content on Instagram and
when I say long form slow paced content
I'm referring to Instagram reals and
Instagram stories that are not the brief
7 second super quick but the longer
content the videos that are 45 60 even
up to 90 seconds long and honestly I
wouldn't be surprised if Instagram gives
us the ability to post Reals in 2024
that are longer than 90 seconds and the
first clue that helped me create this
prediction was that Instagram at the end
of 2023 started to give us some insights
and some statistics so that we could
track our own watch time and view
duration so we could see how long is
someone watching our real for on average
and we could even see a line graph of
showing like hey when are most people
watching when do most people drop off
and I think that's something that
Instagram wants us to pay attention to
because that's something that they are
paying attention to a big change in the
Instagram algorithm recently has been
that it's paying more attention to
things that directly impact watch time
rather than things that are secondary
indications of watch time and view
duration let me give you an example in
2018 2017 when saves first came out on
Instagram they were hot and if you were
getting a lot of saves you would most
likely get a lot of views your posts on
Instagram would be pushed out to a lot
more people because they had a lot of
saves and that's because at that time
Instagram was essentially thinking well
if this is getting a lot of saves then
it must be a great piece of content that
people are spending a lot of time with
and so let's show it to more people But
as time has progressed and as marketers
like us have kind of gamified the system
and figured out these algorithm cheats
and continued to tell people hey you got
to get a lot of saves you got to get a
lot of shares Etc Instagram has had to
continue to adapt and basically what
they've learned is that those forms of
Engagement whether it's a save like a
share or a comment doesn't necessarily
directly mean that people are spending
more time on the platform if I did have
to rank all of those forms of Engagement
I would say that a share is the best
form of Engagement and even Instagram
CEO has said this himself recently and
that's because shares do make people
spend more time on the platform if
someone is sharing your real into a
group chat or with their partner via
text or with their business slack
Channel or whatever that literally
brings people off of Instagram back to
Instagram and if they're sending it on
their Instagram stories or they're
sending it to their friends in the DMS
that keeps people on Instagram so if
there was one form of Engagement that
does most heavily equate or most
directly equate to an increase in view
time and watch duration it would be a
share however the change at Instagram
that is really fueling this prediction
is that Instagram has stopped caring so
much about those forms of Engagement
which basically are engagement means
more people are watching and instead
Instagram is like let's just see how
long are people watching how much time
are are people spending with this post
are people directly consuming this
content for a longer amount of time
regardless if they're even liking it or
saving it or commenting on it and this
is something that we've seen to be true
on Tik Tok and on YouTube as well
speaking of Tik Tok and YouTube in the
past year in 2023 we saw the rise of
long form content happen on those
platforms and that's part of the reason
that I think it's going to happen on
Instagram as well on Tik Tok in 2020 and
2021 everyone was posting super short 7
second videos often times they were
dancing or highly entertaining or funny
uh the voiceover lip sync style content
but as the general consumer habits have
changed on Tik Tok Tik Tok has embraced
long form content and nowadays if you
scroll through your Tik Tok for you page
or if you're someone who regularly posts
on Tik Tok you will most likely see that
longer form content I'm talking two
three four minutes is doing better on
Tik Tok Tik Tok also gave us the ability
to post up to 10minute videos onto our
Tik Tok page and so that's another
indication that Tik Tok is favoring long
form content let's shift gears and think
about YouTube for a second longer videos
for the last few years have been
performing better on YouTube that's been
widely documented a lot of people have
talked about it but one thing that's
changed even recently at the end of 2023
is the pacing within those videos so I'm
not just talking about the length of the
video overall from start to finish but
how long is each clip how long is it
between each cut or transition or effect
or change if you have ever watched a Mr
Beast video on YouTube You've most
likely seen this style video that's very
almost Las Vegas casino like in that
there's lights flashing everywhere and
there's lots of changes and cuts and
edits and there's always something
stimulating you everywhere you look but
even Mr Beast recently has admitted that
he and his team are testing out slower
paced content content with longer
durations before each cut edit or change
content that is even less edited so it's
more authentic more genuine more off the
cuff and less scripted or perfected the
way you would see it on TV or a movie
and so since we've seen that change on
Tik Tok and it's been very well received
and we've seen that now happening on
YouTube I think the same is going to be
happening on Instagram I wouldn't be
surprised if Instagram allows us to make
reels that are longer than 90 seconds
long and I also predict that those
longer form reels with less editing that
are more off the cuff direct to camera
less polished and refined are going to
be doing better in 2024 and then the one
final reason that I predict this to
happen is that you have likely seen
especially if you've been heavily using
Instagram recently the very popular
style of Instagram reel where it's like
five or 6 seconds long there's a
trending audio in the background and the
real the actual video itself just has a
hook something that like grabs your
attention and then like 2 or 3 seconds
later there's some text that pops up and
says read the caption or details below
and then the thought here from the
person who's posting it is that you're
going to spend a lot of time reading
their three or four paragraph caption
and during that time it takes you to
read it their view duration is going to
keep going up and those four or five
second reels are just going to keep
looping over and over and over again
while you're reading the caption and
while that is true and that does work on
paper and that does work actually in
practice right now I think that the
general user habits or the consumption
habits of the average Instagram user is
going to get smarter and we're going to
start to recognize these things as
annoying as gimmicky as maybe even
spammy and so people are going to make
it a point of not engaging with this
style content and thus that style
content is going to perform much much
worse in 2024 I was actually recently at
a conference speaking and I asked the
audience about this there was about 500
people in the crowd and I asked them to
raise their hand if they enjoyed that
style content the content that was super
quick and just had a hook and then told
you to read the caption and then raise
your hand if you don't like that content
and it was an overwhelming 98 99% of
people said that they're annoyed by that
kind of content they don't like it they
don't want to see it it feels gimmicky
and spammy and so that is also fueling
this prediction as to why I think in
2024 on Instagram we're going to see the
rise of long form slow paced content I
also think that for all of our mental
healths and our ability to focus and and
not just be craving endless amounts of
quick dopamine hits I hope that this is
going to be a beneficial change my
second big prediction for Instagram in
2024 is something that you might not
love hearing and that is that I predict
there's going to be a bigger view Gap or
a bigger difference in views between the
top 5% of content and everything else so
if you were posting reals when they
first came out in 2020 or even in 2021
beginning of 2022 you likely saw a
pretty consistent average of views you
might have the occasional video that
does great you might have a video every
once in a while that does far below
average but for the most part
everything's stuck to the average and
maybe even you were getting a high
amount of views compared to your
followers like I know a lot of people
for example only had a couple hundred
followers at that time but they were
averaging a few thousand views per real
and let's just think about it for a
second that's not realistic pun intended
that's not something that's going to be
sustainable right like if you have 200
followers it's very very challenging to
consistently get 2,000 views because
where are those extra views coming from
of course as people are posting more
content as more people are posting Reals
in general there's less views to go
around and so that was just never going
to be something that was sustainable but
as 2023 progressed we started to see
that your average views decreased and in
fact the average Instagram Real views in
2023 compared to 2022 were down by 76%
which is a crazy number a super high
number but I predict that in 2024 we're
going to see more of the same and this
kind of view Gap is going to be getting
even worse where if you post 100 reals
95 of them are going to do below your
average from
2023 and your top five or your top 5%
are going to do far above your average
from 2023 so that Gap is really going to
be widening and I think the biggest
difference between that top 5% and the
other 95% is of course going to be the
overall quality of the Reel I think that
over the past few years a lot of us have
been kind of let's call it getting away
with half-assing or creating C+ level
average good enough Style reals and
listen to me right now if you're someone
who's just getting started on Instagram
you're new to social media you're still
trying to figure this whole thing out
that's all you can do right now I don't
expect you to in your first ever post
create an A+ reel all you can do at the
time is create reels that are good
enough if all you can do is create reels
that are a c minus level create C minus
level reels and keep doing that keep
practicing and you will get better over
time but right now I'm speaking to the
people who have been creating reels
since 2021 or 2022 and your reels today
pretty much look like the same that they
did two or 3 years ago you haven't
improved your quality hasn't gotten
better your content hasn't progressed
with the industry and so it's no secret
it's no surprise that you're going to
fall behind and just as much as I'm
challenging you I'm challenging myself
right now to consistently improve your
quality and I think there's three main
ways that you can improve the quality of
your rails and really this is going to
be a way that you can improve the
quality of any of your content on social
media but the first strategy is to
improve your Hardware so your camera
your microphone your lighting your
studio your backdrop all those sorts of
things that make up the visual and audio
components of your reel those are things
where you might want to take them up a
level in 2024 and that could be as minor
of a difference of using your back
camera on your phone which is a higher
quality than the front-facing selfie
camera that could be something minor
like buying a $15 microphone off of
Amazon so that your audio quality for
your reals is better that's the first
strategy the second strategy to improve
your content is improve the backend so
so improve the editing the transitions
the filters the effects the overall
attention retaining qualities that a
video or that really any kind of content
could have and then third and probably
most important is improving your overall
strategy a lot of people fall victim to
using outdated strategies ineffective
strategies or strategies that are just
kind of ill-informed because of the
person who is sharing them maybe doesn't
have the best intentions or the best
background or knowledge whatever no
shade towards them but I think a lot of
people end up using
strategies that they expect to make a
big difference and even in the best case
scenario those strategies are only going
to make a small difference I'm looking
at you hashtags and those strategies are
exactly what we share in the insta
clubhub we share the most up-to-date
strategies that are proven to work not
based off our best guests not based off
what works for us but what works for our
over 40,000 students go ahead if you
want to join the insta clubhub click the
link down in the description below or
visit insta clubhub.com and you can join
for 2 weeks for just $7 and if after
those two weeks you're not satisfied you
don't like the club you don't think that
it's valuable enough or you don't think
you're going to use it then by all means
you're welcome to cancel or you can
stick around and attend our live
trainings that my mom and I do every
single month inside the club you can get
our 10 weekly trending audios you can
get our hundreds of reals ideas and hook
ideas and story ideas and all of that
provided in the club again insta
clubhub.com link down in the description
below you can join for 2 weeks for $7
but all this to say I think that
improving your quality in 2024 is going
to be a massive Difference Maker gone
are the days of just posting whatever
you want or posting what everyone else
is doing and expecting to get good
results there's too much competition and
competition breeds quality so as time
has progressed as more people are
posting reals as more reals are being
posted in general the overall bar has
been raised and it's time to increase
our quality if we want to maintain our
views in 2024 my third Instagram
prediction for 2024 is that less is more
in almost all areas let me explain what
I mean by that first I think that less
is more in terms of followers when we
are talking about brand deals
Partnerships and that is because of
Engagement rate so let's break this down
if you are someone who has 100,000
followers because you had some reals go
viral back in 2022 and 2021 well then in
2024 your engagement rate is likely very
low your percentage people who are
engaging with your content is likely
going to be below 3% on average but if
you're someone who just started a brand
new account let's say at the end of 2023
or maybe even the beginning of 2024 and
you only have a couple hundred or maybe
a few thousand followers it's likely
that your engagement rate is going to be
much higher and that's because you have
less followers and those followers are
newer followers they've been following
you for a shorter amount of time thus
meaning they are more likely to see your
current content and from a brand
perspective when I compare two people I
would much rather work with someone who
only has a few thousand followers but
those followers are really engaged and
really active rather than someone who
blew up a few years ago and has a few
hundred thousand followers but their
engagement rate is very very low so if
you're someone who wants brand deals and
Partnerships in 2024 but you're feeling
bad because you have a relatively low
following I think some good news is that
less might be more having less followers
might lead to more engagement rate which
means you can get brand deals and get
paid for posting content I also think
that less is going to be more with your
Instagram stories where in the past we
have seen that Instagram stories was a
competition for who could post the most
if you were posting a bunch of Instagram
stories every single day your little
story bubble was moving back to the
front of the queue and you were racking
up more views and there are definitely
still some people who I can think of off
the top of my head who post 20 30 40 50
stories a day and their story views are
very high they've trained Their audience
to expect that and to want that and that
strategy does work for them however I
think for the majority of us we're going
to see that you're getting more views on
your stories when you have less stories
posted or you're posting less frequently
personally over the last four or five
months of 2023 I've started to test out
this strategy where I'm only posting
stories at most four days a week so
every other day but really I'm posting
stories maybe only two or three days a
week and I've seen my stories absolutely
Skyrocket in terms of the views they're
receiving I've Seen My Views increase by
5x over the last few months by posting
far fewer stories but being way more
intentional with each story that I post
rather than just showing every single
thing I'm doing in my life documenting
every single moment of my day every
thought every video every rant
everything posted on my story I'm being
very intentional and asking is this
something that is going to stop their
scroll is this something that's going to
grab their attention is this something
that's going to entertain Inspire or
educate and if not then I'm probably not
going to post it on my story I also
think that less is going to be more with
your reals views and this has actually
been true for a while but I think some
people maybe haven't understood this in
the past when I've spoken about it it
will still be true in my prediction in
my opinion that the more you post the
more you grow there have been numerous
studies that have been done that have
proven that as you increase your feed
posting frequency so your reals photos
and carousels posted to your feed as
you're doing more of that your following
grows however what a lot of people don't
understand with that principle or with
that strategy is that often times as you
increase your frequency as you're
posting more your engagement in your
views decrease on average that is true
and that's often times what scares
people and it sounds contradictory but
as your engagement and your views go
down you are going to be gaining
followers because you're making up for
that decrease with an overall posting
increase so for example if you used to
only post once a week and that one post
would get 100 views then you got 100
views for that week but now you increase
it to three posts a week and each of
those posts is only getting 40 views
well then theoretically your views are
down on average by 60% per video but
when you look at your total views for
the week you're at 120 total views which
is up 20% and so even though your
individual post engagement has gone down
your overall account interactions has
gone up and that leads to more account
growth that is still true and I do think
that's going to continue to be true in
2024 but what I think a lot of people
are going to start to realize and a
strategy that a lot of people are going
to embrace in 2024 is really decreasing
their posting frequency down to maybe
only one or two times a week when they
used to post every day or someone who
used to only post once a week is now
only going to be posting one or two
times a month while like I said I don't
expect this to be a very good strategy
for growth I do expect this to be a
great strategy if you just want views if
you want your active existing current
followers to see what you're posting
then it would behoove you in 2024 to
post less frequently less is more less
posts is more views less followers is
more pay that is my third prediction for
Instagram in 2024 my fourth Instagram
prediction in 20124 is that we are all
going to be much more intentional with
who we follow and let's finish that
sentence with who we unfollow I think
that a lot of us have this feeling of
spending too much time on our phones not
wanting to be addicted to Instagram not
wanting to be addicted to this little
tiny metal rectangle in our pocket and
so we're realizing that over the last
few years especially in 2020 and 2021
where we kind of had nothing better to
do we were locked inside and we started
following a lot of people now we're
going to be like wait why do I still
follow this person why is this person
still showing up on my feed why did I
choose to follow this person three years
ago I haven't liked anything or seen
anything since then I'm just not into it
anymore I'm in a different stage of my
life I'm into different things in
different interests and passions and
hobbies so I think we're all going to be
much more intentional with who we're
following depending on what study you
look at the average person on Instagram
follows about 250 people and so I expect
that number to go down in 2024 as people
start to look with a more critical
magnifying class at every person they
follow and they're only going to
continue to follow the people who really
serve them who really provide value who
really entertain them or Captivate them
or Inspire them and first let's view
this as the consumer I think this is a
good thing less time on our phones less
time on social media less time consuming
content that doesn't serve us I think
that's great as the Creator be it the
entrepreneur the business owner the
content creator the brand trying to grow
on Instagram whatever you might
initially think that this is a bad thing
because you're going to have less people
following you and more people
unfollowing you you might see it's
harder to grow on Instagram in 2024 than
it is in the past I think that's
probably going to be true but I think
that might be a good thing because
you're going to have followers who are
intentionally following you I would much
rather have eight followers who love me
than 80 followers who are like his
content's okay I'm not really that into
it but I'm going to keep following him
just because I feel bad unfollowing I'd
much rather have eight people who are
like yes liking every post saving every
post commenting on every post that would
be much more beneficial for me as a
content creator and as a business owner
than having a bunch of lukewarm
followers I want the super hot followers
the followers who are on fire for me and
my content and I predict that that's
what we're going to see happen in 2024
prediction number five for Instagram in
this coming year is that we're going to
see more private spaces for community
and for close friends and we've already
started to see this kind of dripped out
and leaked out and tested here and there
at the end of 2023 Instagram has been
expanding the close friends feature
which used to be just a way that you
could basically make a list of people
who follow you and who you follow back
who are you know mutual friends you can
make a list of them called your close
friends list and you could post stories
for only them to see previously that was
the only thing that existed for close
friends but now we've sted to see
Instagram test things like a close
friends feed where you can post to your
feed for only your close friends to see
once you've added them to the list then
they can see that feed post that real
whatever it may be we've also seen close
friends group chats and close friends
broadcast channels so that you can
communicate within private messages
private message boards with just this
close niit community we've also seen
Instagram test things like subscriber
only broadcast channels private member
group chats and things like that where
really Instagram is doubling down on
these small close-nit communities these
really intimate engaged connected
cohorts of people rather than just
appealing to the masses they've been
allowing us to really appeal to the
minority appeal to the select few who we
choose to appeal to and I think there's
lots of marketing potential in this I've
seen lots of people use their close
friends stories and their close friends
feed to to really uh sell High ticket
products or to get in front of a select
group of people who are highly engaged
and I think that can be effective I do
think that for the average person who
uses Instagram as top of funnel
marketing is just trying to get more
eyeballs and more attention on their
account I don't see these close-knit
communities and and close friends groups
as a way to grow your following or
necessarily boost your business and your
sales but if you're someone who sells
something that's very high ticket very
expensive something that requires a lot
of person touch or something like
one-on-one coaching then I could really
see these smaller close-knit communities
being very useful for building those
relationships and building that trust
which could eventually One Day lead to a
sale or a customer I also think that
Instagram is going to continue to give
us more of these features and more
ability to you know follow our friends
and connect with the people who we know
in real life because that's what people
are asking for and a lot of people say
that that's what they miss about
Instagram nowadays you scroll through
your homepage and you see every other
post is an advertisement or a
recommendation or someone you don't know
or don't follow that Instagram's like
hey you might like this you might want
to buy this and while there were things
that were released in 2023 that allowed
us to control our feed and only see a
feed in chronological order only see a
feed that was full of the people who are
mutual friends I think that not a lot of
people have used that feature and I
think that in 20124 Instagram will give
us more features and continue to really
emphasize the fact that we as the
consumer have a decent amount of control
over what we are seeing in our feed in
what order and whom is showing up and so
I think that in 2024 Instagram is going
to just continue to emphasize that and
make that a point of focus on their
platform my sixth Instagram prediction
for next year is one that I probably
want more than anything else and that is
increased spam protection and detection
we have seen at the end of 20123 a few
things that have helped Instagram has
introduced a new filter within your
comments section where you have the
ability to hide certain comments so
rather than deleting them or reporting
them or blocking them you can hide them
so the general public can't see those
comments and only you can and Instagram
and the algorithm has even gone a step
further into trying to detect what is a
spam comment and then hiding said
comments I will say it has been not the
best so far for every hundred spam
comments I receive maybe six get hidden
automatically by Instagram and the rest
I have to manually go in and either
delete or hide but Instagram has started
to hint at some new features that
they're going to be rolling out in 2024
to allow us to detect spam followers and
spam engagement and there's even rumors
that you're going to be able to with
just a few clicks remove all of your
spam inauthentic or robot followers and
I think this is going to be a really
interesting shift on Instagram in the
coming year as we see people's followers
drastically decline as they start to use
this feature we start to see people who
maybe bought followers
whether intentionally or accidentally
unknowingly in the past suddenly removed
20,000 40,000 50,000 followers like that
and it will be really interesting to see
how people the average consumer responds
to that do we now not trust this person
because they suddenly lost a bunch of
followers or do we trust them more
because they were honest enough to
remove the fake followers that they may
be purchased in 2014 also for someone
like myself who has 600,000 followers a
lot of my followers probably are robots
I've been on Instagram for so long and
I've had so many posts go viral that
it's pretty likely that at least a
decent percent of my followers aren't
real people I have never bought
followers or anything like that but it's
very possible that there's a lot of
spammers and Bots who followed me over
the years and maybe those accounts
aren't active anymore or they're just
not used or whatever they're just still
following me and so if I'm to use this
feature I'm curious myself to see how
many followers do I lose and then the
next step after that is not just what
does the public opinion think of that
but what does my Instagram account what
does my performance my views my
engagement look like once I remove these
fake followers because it does make
sense mathematically that as you remove
these fake followers who do not engage
your engagement rate goes up if I have
100 followers and get 10 likes that's a
10% engagement rate but if I then remove
20 followers who are all fake followers
and their spam now I have 80 followers
and I'm still getting those 10 likes my
engagement rate has just increased so
now if my engagement rate goes up am I
now shown to more of my real followers
do I now have more organic reach to
people who don't follow me yet it'll be
really interesting to see how
Instagram's algorithms keep up as we
remove and detect these spam fake
followers my seventh and final
prediction for Instagram in 2024 is what
I'm calling the YouTub ification of
Instagram you might not have ever tried
to grow on YouTube before you might not
be familiar with YouTube strategies but
on YouTube the idea of growth hacks and
ways that you can trick the YouTube
algorithm is far less prominent don't
get me wrong there are definitely best
practices there are definitely
strategies to help you get more views
there are definitely things that you
should do or should avoid doing in order
to grow your YouTube following don't get
me wrong on that but it's different than
on Instagram on Instagram it seems like
everyone is always chasing after and
coming up with new hacks New Tricks new
outlandish strategies and myths in order
to boost your views and increase your
comments and trick the algorithm into
showing you to more people but that's
not necessarily always the case on
YouTube on YouTube If you make a great
video that's highly engaging and people
want to watch it and they keep watching
it you will be shown to more people and
again I understand there are things like
a thumbnail and a title and SEO that
contribute to this but overall Instagram
is much more gimmicky and the way people
try to grow on Instagram is much more
Reliant upon the newest latest hack and
strategy and things to try out and I
don't think that's going to be the case
in 2024 I'm sure there will still be
plenty of people who do search out these
things however I think that the people
who are having the most success are the
people who are not riant upon these
things and to take it a step further I
think that the algorithm is going to be
much quicker to adapt to these gimmicks
and hacks thus making them far less
effective let me give you an example in
the summer of 2022 there was something
called the 1C video strategy where you
could take an infographic or a picture
something that wasn't a video and you
could make it into a 1 second video you
could either just screen record your
phone for a second or pull it into canva
and then export it as a 1cov file but
then when you posted it to Instagram
Instagram thought that it was a video
but because it was only 1 second it
would just play over and over and over
and over again with nothing really
changing nothing really happening but
the idea was that people would take a
lot of time or at least a few seconds to
look at the photo or to read through the
infographic or to read through whatever
it is you typed out on the text and
because of that the 1se second video
would have like a 1 1700% watch rate
because if someone watched it for 17
seconds essentially that 1 second video
played 17 times over and over again that
was effective for probably about 3 or
four months people were getting four
five six 10 times the amount of views
that they would average on a normal
video on these 1 second text post videos
but like I said that only worked for a
few months and then the Instagram
algorithm changed and stopped being as
effective it doesn't really work
nowadays if you try it you're probably
not going to see that great of results
and that's because essentially what they
most likely did within the algorithm is
made it so that they waited the total
watch time over just the watch
percentage so yeah you could get 1,700
watch percentage but if that 1700% only
represents 17 seconds is it really that
valuable but again that took a few
months and so my prediction in 2024 is
that these sorts of gimmicks these sorts
of little hacks are going to be much
more few and far between when they do
work and when they are effective when
they do start to pop up and people start
using them they're only going to be
effective for a few days maybe a few
weeks at most before either the consumer
habits pick up on that and people are
like I see what's going on here I'm not
going to engage with this or the
algorithm is smart enough to figure out
like hey I see how someone's trying to
trick me I see what's going on I see how
people are trying to gamify the system
and cheat the system here and then
they're going to either adapt the
algorithm and change or that is not
going to be a style of post that is
allowed or promoted or pushed out
anymore I think the YouTub ification of
Instagram also relates all the way back
to my first prediction which if you can
remember that long ago my first
prediction was that long form slower
content was going to be more effective
on Instagram again that's something that
we've seen happen on YouTube I think
that's something that we're going to see
happen more frequently and more
pervasively on Instagram as well I would
love to hear your thoughts on all these
predictions though so please let me know
down in the comments below if you're
watching this on YouTube what do you
want to come true what predictions do
you have what predictions are you
already going to call me out and say
that I am going to be wrong about let me
know down below and if you haven't
already make sure you subscribe we've
got some exciting things planned for
this podcast in 2024 thank you for
watching today and I will see you in the
next
one
[Music]